Prerequisites:
--------------
	- Python 2 (version 2.7.3 proven to work)

		# apt-get install python2.7

	- Django (version 1.4.1 proven to work)

		# pip install Django==1.4.1
		OR a newer version, such as
		# pip install Django==1.5.4

	- a web server (example relevant configuration is shown for Apache 2) 
		able to handle WSGI

		# apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi


How to set up the transcription environment on the server:
----------------------------------------------------------
# Update the localsettings.py config file (create this by copying 
	localsettings.py.example) to suit your environment. Meaning and format of 
	all configuration variables should be clear from the comments in 
	localsettings.py.example.

# Run scripts/setup_script.py.

# Set up your webserver to find your new transcription web application. For 
	Apache, this can be done by inserting a snippet like the following to
		/etc/apache2/sites-available/default
	and
		/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default
		(which is by default a symlink to the former file)
	below the root <VirtualHost> element:

		WSGIDaemonProcess app_transcript
		WSGIScriptAlias /apps/transcription /webapps/transcription/trs_site/wsgi.py
		<Location /apps/transcription>
			WSGIProcessGroup app_transcript
		</Location>

	This particular configuration would make the Apache webserver associate 
	the <hostname>/apps/transcription URL with the application directory 
	/webapps/transcription, affecting where the wsgi.py script and other 
	Python modules used by the app are looked for.

# Create the database (following is pseudocode, do NOT copy & paste it 
	to your terminal):

	cd /webapps/transcription && ./manage.py syncdb
	# You will be asked to enter your superuser details.

	Make sure the access permissions are set correctly for directories used 
	by Django.  This can mean you need to issue the following commands, 
	depending on your configured paths:

	# PROJECT_PATH=/webapps/transcription
	# cd $PROJECT_PATH &&\
		chown www-data db{,trss.db} data/{,conversations,import,lists} log/{curl,work}_logs

# [Optional] Save the name and domain of your new site to the database.  
	The name of the site appears in password-reset emails, and defaults to 
	example.com.

	You can change the domain and name of the site using the following 
	commands:

	# cd $PROJECT_PATH && ./manage.py dbshell
	SQL> UPDATE django_site SET name = '<your chosen site name>';
	SQL> UPDATE django_site SET domain = '<your site domain>';

# Collect static files using the following command:

	$ cd $PROJECT_PATH && ./manage.py collectstatic -l
	# You may be asked to confirm you want to override existing files. In 
	# a clean installation, with the default setting of STATIC_ROOT, this 
	# warning is a false alarm. If there were static files collected, they 
	# would be overwritten, but there are none.

# Reload the web server, open the site URL, and log in with the superuser 
  account you created.


How to set up transcription via Crowdflower:
--------------------------------------------

# Get yourself an account with Crowdflower (crowdflower.com).

# Make sure USE_CF is set to True in localsettings. 
	Update all other related configuration, including CF_KEY (should be 
	provided by Crowdflower for your account).

	If you changed USE_CF or any configuration variables pointing to 
	directories or URLs, you probably have to repeat the previous part.

# Create Crowdflower jobs using the "Create new Crowdflower jobs" item on 
	the main menu. Main menu is what you see when you log in to the site 
	using your web browser.

	When you submit the form for creating Crowdflower jobs, the 
	Transcription app will communicate with Crowdflower. You will have to 
	wait for a response for a minute or so.

	When successful, you will have new jobs created in your Crowdflower 
	account, and in the Transcription app's database. Dialogue prices you 
	specified in the form were used to generate CF jobs' titles (don't be 
	surprised when titles show different prices -- these are prices for 
	the *assignment*: dialogue price times number of units per assignment 
	that you specified in the Create Jobs form). Dialogue prices are now 
	also associated with corresponding Crowdflower job IDs, and your 
	dialogues will be uploaded to their appropriate job based on the price.

	Dialogue prices are computed using the configuration variables 
	PRICE_CONST, PRICE_PER_MIN, and PRICE_PER_TURN. If you change your mind 
	about these constants any time later, you can reconfigure Django and 
	have it recompute dialogue prices by using the Update Price action in 
	the Dialogues admin view.
	
# Order your units through the Crowdflower web interface. You want to set 
	the price for each job the same as what the title specifies.

# If fully annotated transcription elements are desired also for gold 
	units, fire gold hooks (an option in the main menu) when finished with 
	the job, just in case the job_complete webhook from CrowdFlower did not 
	fire automatically.


How to import dialogues:
------------------------

# Make the dialogue log directories available at the server's filesystem.
	If the dialogue logs are on a remote filesystem, you can use the
	fetch_dgdir.sh script (from the `scripts' directory) to achieve this. The
	script also creates a list of imported dialogues for you, so you can then
	skip the next step.
	
	For using the `fetch_dgdir.sh' script, you need to:
		1. create a directory with dialogue logs as its immediate children at
			 the remote filesystem;
		2. (optional) pack the directory;
		3. run the script at the target server; run the script without
			 arguments for usage message.

# Create a text file listing paths towards the log directories, one per 
	line (preferably in localsettings.LISTS_DIR, although whether you put it
	in this directory or elsewhere, probably has no impact).

# Open the web interface of your application and navigate to dialogue 
	import (through an option in the menu at the first page after login, or 
	through the Dialogues->Add option of the Admin app). Specify the path 
	towards the file listing your dialogues, any other options as required, 
	and press the button. Depending on the number of dialogues imported, you 
	might have to wait a considerable amount of time until the page with an 
	import report loads.

	If you are using Crowdflower, you can choose to upload all imported 
	dialogues to Crowdflower right away (using the corresponding checkbox 
	in the Import Dialogues form) or you can do so any time later using the 
	Upload to Crowdflower action from the Dialogues admin page.  There, you 
	will be provided with various filters to help you specify exactly the 
	set of dialogues you wish to have annotated.

	Note that the CSV file you are asked to provide name for may be very 
	helpful when the transcriptions are done and you want to delete the 
	dialogue logs from the filesystem. Therefore, you should enter a name for 
	it by which you will be able to recognize what data subset it belongs to.  
	This CSV file is stored in the directory configured as CONVERSATION_DIR.


How to get data out of the system:
----------------------------------

There are two ways to export the data from the database Django uses 
internally:

	A) Make a database dump.

	B) Export the dialogue logs.


(A) is done by simply running the script scripts/dumpdata.sh. This exports 
the data from the Transcription app and data about the Django users, to the 
data/dumps directory in the JSON format.

	This is a good option to backup your data (they can be loaded again using 
./manage.py loaddata dump.json) but not the right option if you want to 
further process the transcriptions. In the latter case, follow the option 
(B).


(B) is done from the Admin site ("Admin" option in the main menu) for 
Dialogues (click the link Dialogues at the main admin page). Select 
dialogues you wish to export using the checkboxes left of dialogue names, 
possibly with the help of filters or the search field. (Note also the 
"Select all N dialogues" link right of the search field if you check the 
checkbox in the header row.) From the Action rolldown menu, select the 
"Export annotations" option and click Go.  The dialogue logs with 
annotations will be exported to data/export.  Check the message at the top 
of the page that loads after the export is done for the exact path to the 
annotated logs directory.

	After you have exported the data, you probably want to copy them back to 
the dialogue directories, possibly on a remote server.

	Note that by exporting the data, you do NOT remove them either from the 
app's database nor from the filesystem. If you want to remove them from the 
database, choose the appropriate action from the Admin site where you 
exported them. If you want to remove them from the filesystem, go ahead and 
remove them after you removed them from the Django database (otherwise, the 
app might be looking for them in the "transcribe" view, and not finding 
them). All the dialogue logs are stored in the directory configured as 
CONVERSATION_DIR.

	BEFORE YOU REMOVE THE DATA from the database, you might want to measure 
work done for all the annotators, unless a different awarding scheme is in 
force. Use the Transcriptions admin page and the "Measure work done" action 
to get a report about the amount of work done by each annotator.
